many people these days are concerned
with achieving a happy life but often
lack the skills and knowledge to do so
luckily thousands of years ago the old
Stoics already figured out how to suffer
less and enjoy more with a system of
exercises wisdom and ethics inspired by
the workings of the universe stoicism is
a philosophy for happiness in this video
I will present you three stoic ways to
be happy
[Music]
the meaning of the word happiness is
different for every person
some people think of happiness as having
a lot of money other people think about
enjoying the company of their loved ones
the Greek word eudaimonia can be
translated to happiness
although the Stoics use it to describe
the state of living in accordance with
nature living in accordance with nature
leads to a sense of inner peace and
contentment which in many spiritual
traditions is true happiness now let's
dive in one alter your judgments
the Stoics believed that events aren't
inherently good or bad but that the mind
makes it so why is this important
because most things that happen in our
lives are beyond our control and there
are actually very few things that we do
have control over one thing that we do
have control over is our opinion or in
other words our ability to judge during
the time that the great stoic Epictetus
was alive people often went for nice
baths in one of the many bath houses
during these visits many things overcame
them like theft splashing water and
people using abusive language these may
seem undesirable experiences but the way
these experiences affect us depends on
how we judge them
Epictetus said and I quote for thus if
any hindrance arises in bathing you will
have it ready to say it was not only to
bathe that I desired but to keep my mind
in a state conformable to nature and I
will not keep it if I am bothered at
things that happen and quote a mind
state conformable to nature points to
equanimity and equanimity is a
consequence of living in accordance with
your own inborn nature as well as the
nature of the universe
simply put be a virtuous person and be
skillful about your judgments in regards
to things that are not up to you which
brings us to the next point to live
virtuously in my video about the three
pillars of stoicism I've already spoken
about vices and virtues that are part of
stoic ethics these vices and
virtues are connected to what the Stoics
call living in accordance with nature
vices are considered bad and go against
nature and virtues are considered good
and go along with nature virtue can be
subdivided into wisdom justice courage
and moderation the fights can be
subdivided into foolishness injustice
cowardice and intemperance according to
the Stoics virtue always leads to
happiness and vice always leads to
misery so the solution for a happy life
is quite simple live virtuously and
avoid vice now there's a lot more to
life than good and bad the large gray
area between the favorable zenith of
virtue and the undesirable nadir of
advice there are the indifference like
life death reputation ugliness beauty
and wealth indifference aren't
necessarily good or bad but rather
preferred or diss preferred because
indifference are seen as inferior to
virtue and vice when it comes to a happy
life they shouldn't be the focus I will
make a more detailed video about vice
and virtue in the future 3 lower your
expectations the essence of high
expectations is that we expect a
desirable outcome in regards to things
that we do not have control over taking
such a position towards external things
will eventually lead to disappointment
because they often don't work out the
way we have imagined ourselves for
example you expect your father to act in
a certain way like a quote unquote
good father who was there for you when
you need him respect your decisions and
shows affection instead he is flaky he
doesn't respect your decisions and act
cold and affection less the question is
is it your father that causes the hurt
or the position you take towards your
father
Epictetus said and a quote is you
naturally entitled than to a good father
no only to a father and the condition
and characteristic of a philosopher is
that he expects all hurt and benefit
from
self the marks of a proficient are that
he centers no one praises no one blames
no one accuses no one and quotes
Epictetus points out that you're not
entitled to the things that you wish for
but only to the things that are
naturally given to you expecting more
than nature offers you results in
suffering this suffering comes from the
position you take ie your wish for
things to have happened differently and
not from the events itself Marcus
Aurelius had to deal with many difficult
people and he knew that the two
optimistic outlook would only set him up
for disappointment thus he applied a
negative visualization to prepare for
the day and a quote today I'll shall be
meeting with interference ingratitude
insolence disloyalty ill-will and
selfishness all of them due to the
offenders ignorance of what is good or
evil and quote this is actually a great
exercise to curb once high expectations
in order to be less disturbed by what
the future puts on your plate
[Music]
for more stoicism you can check out my
stoicism playlist thank you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]